hey guys I don't really have time to be
making videos I thought I wouldn't make
any videos the rest of this month haha
my new girlfriend is coming over I got
to clean up the apartment I was just
joking to Richard vegan gains I said to
him I'm gonna buy a whole bunch of
flowers because the more flowers I have
sitting around the apartment the less my
girlfriend is gonna notice how filthy
the place but I gotta sweep the floor
gotta mop the floors I got a I got a
decent things to clean things up around
here
look this video is filling in the gaps
or some of you guys on the court case
with durianrider and it's deeper
significance we're living in a period of
history when the culture of the Internet
is really corroding the culture of
everything else that is not the internet
a lot of you guys need to really you
know put your feet on the ground feel
the earth and the grass between your
toes and start behaving on the internet
the same way you would behave in the
real world if you talk to someone in a
cafe if you talk to someone face to face
the way you would consider evidence the
way you would evaluate a real situation
because YouTube is not very far removed
from real people their real lives in
real situations and this doesn't just
involve people with edgy or extreme
online personas like durianrider or
vegan cheetah you know to me it's still
really memorable that when a natural
vegan decided to come at me
the first thing she was coming at me
with was denouncing me saying that I was
a terrible scholar of Buddhism so for
more than 10 years of my life it was a
scholar of Buddhism there are still
essays on the internet you can read a
couple of them are peer-reviewed
publications I forget I forget I have
two I thought did you say I'd like to
peer review publications it's not a lot
but have a couple um I remember a
response to this her whole way of
behaving it's like the mentality of the
youtube comment section even though
she's speaking to me directly
she's saying this really over-the-top
caddy and something stuff to me as if
she's trying to get my attention
we talked someone in real life face to
face in a cafe or in a boardroom at a
meeting or even in a university
classroom setting you don't say the
kadia stand most outrageous thing to get
the person's attention if you say caddy
and outrageous things in real world
contacts you lose people's respect and
they stop paying attention but in a
context like a youtube comment section
people are always saying thing they're
there they're exaggerating there they're
taking reasonable situations and
reacting to them in an unreasonable way
just in the hopes that the content
creator or that other people in the
comment section will pay attention to
them as opposed to someone who's being
rational and reasonable and like so you
know when I natural vegan was talking
this way my actual reaction sure was oh
look if you want to criticize me as a
scholar of Buddhism like read two or
three articles like you know we can read
my work like I would be so happy to have
someone actually engaging in critique of
my work in Buddhism like you actually
have an interest you actual want to know
about that no no she didn't
what a natural vegan did was defame me I
think I could call it defamation by
going to like the crappy comment
sections of you know some like group
chat websites you know and like she
found some comment sections where some
anonymous people were calling me a
worthless piece of crap now again
there's a lot wrong with this there's
the mentality the internet the way the
internet corrodes culture [ __ ] world
like okay so even if I've only got a
couple of peer-reviewed articles I got a
lot more non peer-reviewed articles how
are you going to evaluate you know my
work as a scholar of Buddhism why would
you go to why would you take as
indicative some anonymous comments made
by people who hate me on a board like
that
now again you know the flip side of this
is I look at somebody like a natural
vegan
and I said okay look like I'm I'm the
first Prime well I'm extremely
self-critical I think I wasted more than
10 years in my life as a scholar
Buddhism I'm not gonna exaggerate the
value of what I did as a scholar but
it's not at all there are some people
who consider my work in Buddhism
brilliance I've presented my work in
some very interesting settings both you
know like monastic settings like you
know with you in Buddhism as a religion
and academic settings I've had feedback
from people who are real experts in the
field which of course unnatural vegan is
not um but you know I'm the first person
to say I wasted ten years of my life I
wish I had never done that I wish I'd
never become scholars I wish I'd never
put in all those hard hours studying the
language in the literature and so on and
you know I'm eager to not only receive
criticism but to engage in that kind of
criticism this I mention this because
this comes up also in the stuff in my
personal life I'm eager to talk about my
divorce or what I've done wrong in
barristers but I'm not open that stuff
I enjoy examining it said mother that's
just part of my character part Who I am
and the flip side is the other reason
why I'm eager is almost nobody wants to
engage in those conversations I have
material on Buddhism going back to the
very first days of this channel so a
couple years ago do you think there are
other channels engaging in like
meaningful examination exploration of
the articles I published on Buddhism no
and like even with stuff like my divorce
and I said to cheetah lately look like
you're making up this gossip out of thin
air as if I'm not here like if you
actually wanted to talk to me what's
going on my divorce again if anyone
wants to talk to me about what's going
on in the court case they can so it's
this it's this really sick game I say to
me it's like the youtube comment section
mentality where you think by being
unreasonable by responding to anything
reasonable in an unreasonable way you're
going to get more attention from your
viewers from other people in the comment
section or because you're really just
trying to hurt the feelings of the
content creator themselves and the
reason why I've hung in here is that it
doesn't hurt me it's completely surreal
to me what a natural vegan did in trying
to denounce me and the family and take
me down and it's completely unforgivable
completely intellectual dishonest in a
very different way from what vegan
cheetah and durianrider do but I think
on this more fundamental and profound
question of how the culture of the
internet corrodes just the cult the
culture of political discourse in the
real world this is really worth
reflecting on guys
durianrider you could see in my video my
four minute
you know statements to him was basically
only one-sided cuz I could barely hear
what he said I could hear a few words of
what he said so it was just informing
him he needs to get a lawyer he needs to
see it represented in court look guys I
mean why would durianrider side of the
story even be believable to anyone I'm
gonna reflect on this in a relatively
deep way because I think this is again
the culture of the internet corrupting
other forms of political discourse other
aspects of our culture um you know that
durianrider lied about a long list of
things in this conflict and even if you
have no source information other than
durianrider many of the things he said
he later in an offhand way admitted they
were lies or he just dismissed them as
trolling as being of no significance
right
so in various ways in various levels of
seriousness and he had one video where
he broke down weeping in apologize it
wasn't apologizing to me he was
regretting that vegan gains had you know
crossed him because of this and so on
you know he was reading the the collapse
of his social media empire people get at
me because I broke down weeping for
pretty good reasons well during Ryder
broken for some mad suspect reasons in
the same the same event right so let's
let's keep this in perspective but if
you make a flowchart of how many things
durianrider lied about why would his
claims about this court case
specifically be credible now I'm just
gonna use one maybe two examples here to
keep it quick but you know way back in
the day when this started one of the
Lies durianrider told about me that I've
laughed about many times on camera he
claimed that just before I came here to
China
he claimed that I had so many sexual
liaison
with other vegans in some vegan activist
group that he never named in Quebec that
I had been kicked out of this vegan
group in Quebec now if you look at a map
it's not hard to figure out that this
story must be fake I was a full time
University student in Victoria British
Columbia a lot of you are not familiar
with the geography of Canada I think
that durianrider
was completely unaware of the geography
of Canada even anyone who watched my
channel casually among the things they
would have a sense of my character they
have a sense of the extent to which I
talk about what's going on in my life if
I had been sleeping with a whole bunch
of people in a vegan activist group I
would have been talking about it because
I'm really interested in activism that
would not be a secret I'd say oh wow
this is great
I've got this whole bunch of vegan
activists in Quebec I may you know it
why would it be secret it does but the
story doesn't make of us on many many
levels but including so I mean like
there's just no reason if you watch my
channel even a little bit you know that
be something you would talk about his
channel oh I'm with this vegan group but
now I've got a new girlfriend in the
group that's that's the kind of thing I
talk about my channel I just did a
three-hour podcast with tofu goddess we
were talking about activism and we're
talking about who were dating and our
love lives and the way those things
overlap it's exactly the kind of stuff I
do talk Boboli would not be a secret but
beyond that the distance between
Vancouver sorry Victoria Victoria is
just south of Vancouver from Victoria to
anywhere in Quebec this is like the
difference between France and Russia
there's an enormous distance so it's
obviously a lot so you have a long list
of statements from durianrider that are
and you can even question where does it
come from
did he just make it up out of thin air
or did he hunt around the internet
trying to get lies about me from other
people I don't know I don't really care
but nothing about what this guy has said
at any stage is incredible and as I've
just said the durianrider you know face
to face so to speak over a over over
internet chat but Center look
I've told you the truth at every single
stage and I'm telling you the truth now
you should get a lawyer you should be
represented in court and I told him the
courthouse and the court date and again
guys the document at the start of that
video you can decide in terms of Occam's
razor please if you don't know what
Occam's razor means fascinating
Wikipedia article I am sure all right
which is a simpler explanation the
document I showed is it real or is it
fake why would it be fake if it's real
then everything I've been saying from
the start of the case till now is honest
and true and consistent if it's fake you
would have to come up with a very
convoluted explanation and again you can
go through what during writer said and
try to piece together a truthful or
accurate or narrative but I don't even
think you can do it I mean so much of
what he said at every stage of this has
been a lie now one of the aspects of
that form in an interaction a lot of
people asked about many of them with
good intentions which is fine a lot of
people asked well why did you say to
durianrider that you you know you wish
him the best like what are you why are
you in effect being such a nice guy to
somebody who's hurt you and harmed you
and who you're currently in a core case
with it could in a court battle with
it's good question look guys there's
such a difference with people who watch
my videos and people who don't if you
actually watch my channel lately I think
you do have a pretty good sense of what
kind of guy I am
and if you don't if you just listen to
lies made up about me by vegan cheetah
or the other channels that basically try
to imitate vegan cheetah which is
pathetic
you know obviously you're gonna have no
sense of who I am alright I'm not a
vengeful character there's a difference
between being theatrical and actually
being vengeful I mean I have videos
where I'm really criticizing Ryan from
happy healthy vegan in a very harsh tone
it's very theatrical it's very intense
I'm looking into the camera and
delivering but you know what I have
absolutely no hate in my heart for Ryan
from happy healthy vegan you know
these people I should hate them but I
don't I should hate Charles and a lot of
people are shocked that I keep reaching
out positively to Charles to be
entreated I keep wishing the best friend
I should hate during Ryder he's really
harmed me and he's harmed a lot of
people but I don't I'm not eventual
character it's on a level of feeling I
don't feel that way at all about these
people the the reason for I mean okay
there are two reasons to take during
writer court one because it's the right
thing to do I take very seriously and
that's the kind of person I am and the
second is for the future of the movement
right somebody has to care about the
future of the vegan movement and every
day I look into this camera and I ask my
audience is it you um but I don't hate
these people I don't hate them not even
when I should not even when they've
given me really good reasons to hate
them and look guys how would you feel if
you showed up at a boxing match you
showed up at the gym you were told you
were gonna box with somebody and then
you get there and you realize the man
you're supposed to fight in the boxing
ring has only one arm it is very obvious
to me when I'm watching durianrider
face-to-face durianrider himself talks
to some extent openly and honestly about
his history with psychiatric care with
diagnosed mental illness he claims that
he has cured his own mental illness you
can judge to what extent that is true
for yourself sometimes he claims he's
been diagnosed with quite an amazing
list of conditions including Crohn's
disease and he claims that he's cured
those conditions that again is I think a
very very indicative example of the ways
in which durianrider doesn't just lie to
his audience but he lies to himself and
when I'm looking in his eyes and telling
him you need to hire a lawyer in
Thailand you can see him kind of
alternate
between two frankly crazy frames of mind
one in which he is sort of playfully
lying to me in lying to the audience and
one in which he's lying to himself and
you can see him switching between a
manic smile trying to seem and
vulnerable and him seeming very
vulnerable indeed you know I'm a lot
more comfortable having a debate or even
having a you know a shouting match with
somebody like a natural vegan who at
least is coming into the boxing ring
with both hands working and durianrider
is not somebody I can even debate with
and I do feel sorry for it I do feel
pity for him I feel pity for him now and
if he actually ends up in jail in
Thailand in a two-year sentence I would
feel even more pity for him so for me
there's a contrast between doing the
right thing between because it's the
right thing to do and just feeling some
sympathy some Soros some pity because of
the the harm that's gonna do to another
human being taking during right a court
is the right thing to do it's the right
thing to do for me it's the right thing
to do for the donors it's the right
thing to do for the future of the vegan
movement but I can still feel bad
looking at this guy and realizing I do
not think he's intellectually capable of
handling the situation he's already in
I'm looking at somebody who doesn't want
to admit to himself that I've been
telling the truth and that he's been
lying he's basically sitting there
asking me if this is true why doesn't he
know it already and it's like well the
reason why you don't know this
durianrider is because you've been lying
to yourself lying to everyone else and
you've been disregarding the advice from
everyone who told you the truth okay and
when it even comes down to me believe me
it would be more convenient for me more
convenient for my lawyer my lawyer would
rather try the case with no opposition
in the courtroom it's an easier job for
him if Terry price does step anyone
we're presenting his side of the story
but like when I'm put in that position
I'm trying to do the right thing just
because the right thing to do and I'll
add on to this look guys in terms of my
not being eventual character one of the
things that made this conflict during
more trite or more dramatic is that I'm
still in court with my ex-wife in France
now I remarked in the irony of this many
times different people I think including
during writer and vegan cheetah made up
totally false allegations at a thin air
about my divorce you know in the the
connected court trial
whatever want to say because it's more
legal II there's more going on there
than just the divorce and I've seen
Charles directly claim a pardon me that
I have criminal charges against me in
connection to that which is not true and
has never been true I'm not facing any
criminal charges on the contrary my
ex-wife will face criminal charges
now I know just how terrible it is to
find out that someone has in secret
filed legal paperwork against you that
someone has carried out a trial in your
absence without informing you so you
didn't have the opportunity to show up
and defend yourself or to pay a lawyer
to show up and defend yourself because
that is exactly what my ex-wife did to
me okay
legally in France I was declared missing
without a trace I believe that's the
French term in the United States of
America I think you'd say am ia or
something oh no sorry I made this in
military term if you're missing and
presumed dead is what that is and often
in informal English and on it's a legal
term we just refer this as legally dead
now when that happens to you again this
is true this is similar in America in
France you lose all your legal rights
you lose all your standing in the
divorce trial and that's why I'm not
divorced yet you can't get divorced if
you're dead then I had to start a legal
process to prove that I was a lie pardon
me to prove that I was alive and to
overturn that
earlier you know injunction resolution
whatever you want to say so I know just
how terrible that is so the irony is I'm
in a situation where we are carrying on
a legal case against durianrider
and I have made every effort to declare
to the world openly this is real and
it's ongoing and he is so deep into his
own self-deception that he doesn't want
to accept that it's real he doesn't want
the open okay so I feel sorry for him
and I hope he finally does hire a lawyer
in Thailand who will see right away when
they look up his name of the court date
of the court it will be very easy for a
professional lawyer in Thailand to see
the ongoing case against him I've
already given him all the information he
needs and again I mean what more can I
do
for during Ryder like do you want me to
put him in touch with a lawyer like this
is ridiculous people okay and what more
could I do for this audience what more
can I do for an audience of vegans who
say they're trying to save the world but
who have you know step by step gradually
become accustomed to this culture of
constant defamation and conspiratorial
thinking all right yes you know what
when I showed my passport on camera it's
possible that it's a fake passport here
I actually have it out because I went to
the bank the other day thank you yeah
it's possible I'm showing you a fake
passport it's possible that I'm showing
you a fake criminal record check yeah
it's possible it's possible that how
would I have even done I would have paid
it's possible that I created fake legal
documents in the Thai language it's
possible okay but on the other side of
this the of Occam's razor here people
the simpler explanation is I have been
telling you the truth at every stage and
durianrider has been lying there is just
no reason to think that during Ryder's
story about this court case is more
credible than his story about my
sleeping with a whole bunch of women in
back when I was living an enormous
distance away from Quebec in Victoria
enrolled in university full-time and
making videos every day showing you what
was going on for life I would have been
happy I had a bunch of girlfriends if he
could move in and come back it was part
of a vegan movement at all I would talk
about it on YouTube it's so ridiculous
the story okay it's not more credible
than his story about me being kicked out
of a group in Quebec it's not more
credible than his story that he was
diagnosed with these illnesses like
Crohn's disease and he magically cured
those illnesses so why are you
overlooking just how plausibly stories
are I think we really need to replace a
culture of conspiracy theory thinking
with a culture of sincere engagement
okay and this is why I started with the
example of a natural vegan okay why do
people seemingly intelligent people find
it so satisfying to believe that they
found the truth because they found some
angry comments buried in a discussion
forum all right a natural vegan is not
that stupid
if she wanted to have a fair and
balanced sense of what I did both good
and bad as a scholar of Buddhism so she
could look at my resume showing my CV
she can learn my list of publications
she can look at the academic colloquia
of presented papers ad you know that's
place to start she can look at the
essays it could she can look at the
language work there's a lot of evidence
available just through Google really
rapidly to get a sense of what I did
with those used my life and as you may
know I didn't just study Buddhism at the
same time I was doing humanitarian work
I was doing a lot of historical research
language research as as mentioned I was
also doing other jobs to survive
interact it's not boring you know that's
that was the life I lived during those
years right I'm not asking a natural
vegan to praise that I'm not asking her
to respect it
but I think she does I think she does
respect it and why is it that she
reaches past this mountain of evidence
of readily available evidence
she has a university degree in
philosophy with no background Buddhism
on
sure she could nevertheless read some my
essays and even blog posts like informal
articles about Buddhist philosophy and
she could probably appreciate oh this
guy knows who's Thai but this guy didn't
just waste his time for 10 years
no no she ignores that melton of
evidence she reaches over it to pick up
a thimbleful from the ground okay she
finds some little statement an anonymous
statement on discussion forum of you
know people are pissed off of me and
Buddhism or whatever people who hate my
work which exist if you're doing
anything worthwhile there are people out
there on the internet saying you're a
terrible human being there are people
saying that about a natural vegan -
there have always been people saying
that about durianrider and cheetah and
and me - right because the conspiracy
theory frame of mind rewards that kind
of behavior it makes you feel like
you're smarter than everyone else
because you're ignoring the mountain of
evidence and picking up something hidden
something secret something makes you
feel like you're better than the people
who are paying attention you have the
key to a lock nobody knows but you know
something secret and special that makes
you smarter than wrong I do think a
natural vegan was the victim of that
mentality was just so common and wise
for the Internet in her reaction to me
and the truth is if she had proceeded in
a more open way and actually looking at
the evidence or she just talked to me
the same way you would talk to a person
in a in a cafe you know she may dislike
me I dislike her but I do think in these
obvious ways I think she would respect
me and regard be Zumbi and would not
denounce me and my background in
Buddhism I think she might have actually
just a more intelligent a more
meaningful critique of me or more
intelligent debate with me right this
applies across the board people I think
my conflict with durianrider did raise
so many things that are worth debating
but the type of behavior you see going
on is people ignoring the melton and
trying to pick out something they feel
is secret that it reveals it feels the
real dirt but you know there's a
mountain of dirt
the dirt and stone that's really worth
talking about okay now look guys the
only reason I'm still here is that I'm
the one person a million who actually is
tough enough to take it you know there's
been so many other people the
durianrider made threats of violence
against that he denounced defamed in the
past who just crumbled and some of them
have sent me email some of the sent
email thanking me thanking me because I
was the guy who stood up and they
regretted that they never felt strong
enough that they were too afraid for
whatever reason they couldn't stand up
for themselves when during inviter did
something similar to them okay I can
tolerate this stuff but you guys ought
to have some sympathy in your hearts
because I shouldn't have to okay I was
delighted when the secret got out that I
changed my legal name because it amuses
the hell out of me to see people
generating a mythology out of that side
of my life alright and I did address it
in the conversation with the light twins
and I've dressed it several times on you
now and people expect me to be really
emotionally bashed up about it but what
I said when I was starting to light
tones I'm gonna say again now it's not a
secret everybody in my life who knows me
personally knows about that they know
about my relationship with my parents
they know that I changed my legal name
they know that for a period of almost
exactly 10 years it just worked out to
be 10 years I didn't talk to my parents
at all and they didn't talk to me we
were not on speaking terms I have a very
bad relationship with my parents but
what I said to the light twins is not
meaningless and it's it's a long cool
interview I did with light winds I said
look I made a decision when I came on
the Internet my story is mine to tell my
parents story is not mine to tell and
look again I've alluded to it like guys
I'd say the same thing about my ex-wife
I'm not coming on here and defaming and
denouncing my ex-wife or even
complaining about it really what I say
about my ex-wife in this channel is very
flattering my story is mine to tell hers
isn't okay
I'm not asking any of you guys
respect that I'm really not but when you
look at the reaction to that to
something which again the reason why I
haven't deleted my youtube channel is
that emotionally and intellectually I
can handle all this stuff and a lot of
other people can't I can laugh at it I
can treat it in a more serious and sober
mood the way we are right now but like
guys when we're looking back on like you
know the history of veganism where did
you stand on these issues like why did
you take such Glee in you know trying to
destroy another human being by
ridiculing his relationship with his own
parents by ridiculing his relationship
with his own daughter with his own
ex-wife why were so many people so eager
to do that in a context of again look at
the videos in my own channel I have a
really substantive book review up now
I've had several in the past three
months because about the time to read
books you know switching from be living
in conveying to living in to home I
decided to read a bunch of you know that
major academic publications and the
vegan vegan politics literature and
review and discuss them guys this
channel has always been trying to raise
really serious substantive issues for
discussion for the future of the
movement and you're reaching over that
melton you're ignoring the mountain to
try to pick up some little thimble full
of dirt that you think makes you feel
powerful makes you feel special makes
you feel like you've got the key to a
secret code that nobody else knows and
you know what's what's really worth
dealing with is the mountain it's what's
right in front of your face it's what
I'm presenting to you my relationship
with my parents
believe me today right now if vegan
cheetah wanted to talk to me in a
down-to-earth way about my relation of
the parents I'd be eager to do so if
anybody wanted to talk to me my divorce
believe me you get to be middle-aged I'm
38 years old nobody wants to talk to me
alone a divorce my best friends they
don't want to hear about it they
trust me if you're a teenager you made a
beautiful monster understand this once
you get past a certain age nobody wants
to talk to you about your personal life
nobody wants to know about it people
talk about business people talk about
making money people talking about
politics
nobody wants arguments if not even the
people who gossip too but I had a great
conversation with Lance carb strong
Lance carb strong used to have videos
defaming me in exactly these ways what
the court cases during right arm
personally you don't want to get him on
skype he's the nicest guy in the world
and he doesn't want to talk about that
stuff he has no interest most people
don't
he was given the opportunity to talk to
me face to face guys just say again I
was at a zoo in Thailand the zoo that is
on the same mountain that durianrider
rides his bike up so often they all ride
past the entrance to that Zoo I went to
that zoo because I was sincerely
interested in the conditions the animals
there I'm interested in contrasting
houses work in China Thao Sue's work in
Thailand other countries in Asia too how
they work back in Canada I'm interested
in the politics of zoos from a vegan
perspective and in terms of the future
of animals and people living together I
think there was a lot of interesting
issues and when I was at that zoo one of
the zookeepers had a sort of show and he
was teaching children to care about
recycling not worth describing and so at
one point you know he had a bunch of the
zoo animals who were trained come out
and pick up a bunch of aluminum cans
that he put out on the stage and put
them into the recycling bins you know so
the animals picked up the aluminum cans
and put them in one bin and put the the
plastic in another bin and he was
lecturing the children the audience with
the importance of recycling and he
unveiled a sign in both Thai and English
that said save the planet I was standing
there of course I had mixed emotions
about this I'm against domestication of
animals you know there are a lot of
ethical problems with zoos from Venus
standing there looking this I think God
as such a simple slogan and we all say
it so often
the man how would we be living our lives
and how would we be conducting ourselves
the internet if any of us really were
motivated by a concern for a view to a
plan to save the planet whether you are
at a coffee shop or leaving comments on
the internet I'm gonna ask you try to
act like somebody who is trying to save
the planet